#summary How to download reinCRUD
#labels Phase-Deploy,Featured

= Download =

ReinCRUD is available from two repositories. You can add one of them to your pom.xml and then add the following dependency:

{{{
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.acoveo</groupId>
  <artifactId>reincrud</artifactId>
  <version>1.1</version>
</dependency>
}}}

From the [http://www.vaadin.com vaadin] [http://vaadin.com/directory#addon/reincrud addon site] repository:

{{{
<repository>
   <id>vaadin-addons</id>
   <url>http://maven.vaadin.com/vaadin-addons</url>
</repository>
}}}

Or our corporate maven repository:

{{{
<repository>
   <id>acoveo</id>
   <url>http://www.acoveo.com/maven2/repo</url>
</repository>
}}}


= New project =
If you would like to start a new project based on reinCRUD, you can use our maven archetype to create a new project named _reincrudproject_ in your current directory:

{{{
mvn archetype:generate -DarchetypeCatalog=http://acoveo.com/maven2/repo/archetype-catalog.xml -DgroupId=org.acoveo -DartifactId=reincrudproject -Dversion=1.0-SNAPSHOT
}}}

The example project you have just created assumes that there is a mysql database named _vaadintest_ on your localhost. You have to create the DB before running the project (change the mysql user (root) according to your environment and/or remove the _-p_ option if you do not have a password set):

{{{
sudo mysqladmin create vaadintest
echo "grant all privileges on vaadintest.* to 'vaadintest'@'localhost' Identified by 'vaadintest';" | mysql -u root -p
}}}

Now your project is set-up and you can compile and run a Tomcat instance with your new project using maven:

{{{
cd reincrudproject
mvn install cargo:start
}}}

If Tomcat came up fine, you can now visit [http://localhost:8080/reincrudproject/vaadintest] and should see your reinCRUD application.

= Eclipse =
If you set-up your project using our archetype, you can easily generate an eclipse project with;
{{{
mvn eclipse:eclipse
}}}
and import it using _Existing projects into workspace_.

Have a look at the [Compiling] page if you would like to use a Tomcat instance managed by eclipse.

= Custom widgets =
In order to use the pre-compiled widgetset in reincrud (with custom widgets) you have to extract the _VAADIN_ directory from the jar to _src/main/webapp/_. On Linux just run the following command from within your project directory:
{{{
unzip .m2/repository/org/acoveo/reincrud/1.1/reincrud-1.1.jar VAADIN* -d src/main/webapp/
}}}

In order to use the widgetset, you have to modify your src/main/webapp/WEB-INF/web.xml and set _org.acoveo.reincrud.gwt.widgetset.!ReinCrudWidgetset_ as the widgetset param-value of the vaadintest servlet. Then set _org.acoveo.reincrud.customGwtWidgetsEnabled=true_ in src/main/resources/config.properties and re-deploy to your Tomcat.

You can also use your own widgetset and inherit from _org.acoveo.reincrud.gwt.widgetset.!ReinCrudWidgetset_. In that case, you need to use the GWT compiler, though. If you created your project using our archetype, there is an example _!VaadintestAppWidgetSet.gwt.xml_ widgetset in your project and you can enable the GWT compiler, by setting _activeByDefault_ to true within the _compile-widgetset_ profile of the pom.xml.